Add new Introduction to 2D page (#9621)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/2d/introduction_to_2d.rst

- **Gizmos**: Toggles the visibility of `Position` (shown with cross icon), `Lock` 
  (shown with padlock), `Groups` (shown with two squares), and `Transformation` (shown with 
  green and red lines) indicators.
- **Center Selection**: The same as the **Center View** button inside the viewport. Centers the selected 
  node(s) in the view. :kbd:`F` is the default shortcut.
- **Frame to Selection**: Similar to `Center Selection`, but also changes the zoom factor to fit the 
  contents in the screen. :kbd:`Shift + F` is the default shortcut.
- **Clear Guides**: Deletes all guides from the screen. You will need to recreate them if 
  you plan to use them later. 
- **Preview Canvas Scale**: Toggles the preview for scaling of canvas in the editor when the zoom 
  factor or view of the viewport changes. Useful to see how the controls will look like after scaling 
  and moving, without running the game.
- **Preview Theme**: Allows to choose from the available themes to change the look of control items 
  in the editor, without requiring to run the game.

Node2D and Control node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> :ref:`CanvasItem` is the base node for 2D. :ref:`Node2D <class_Node2D>` is the base node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`CanvasItem <class_CanvasItem>` is the base node for 2D. :ref:`Node2D <class_Node2D>` is the base node
```
Sorry, I gave you bad syntax in the other suggestion. This should fix the CI.

Author: I will merge all and make the changes you suggested above as well. Thanks!

.. _doc_introduction_to_2d:

Introduction to 2D
==================

> Welcome to the exciting world of 2D game development with Godot! Whether you're a 
> seasoned developer or just starting out, Godot offers a friendly and intuitive environment 
> to bring your game ideas to life. With its powerful yet accessible features, you'll have 
> the freedom to unleash your creativity and create captivating gaming experiences. From 
> designing unique characters and crafting immersive worlds to implementing engaging 
> gameplay mechanics, Godot provides a comprehensive set of tools and resources to support 
> your game development journey. So, get ready to embark on an adventure filled with endless 
> possibilities and let your imagination soar as you dive into the wonderful realm of 2D game 
> development with Godot!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to 2D game development with Godot! Whether you're a seasoned developer or
just starting out, Godot offers a friendly and intuitive environment to bring your game
ideas to life. Godot has dedicated 2D rendering and physics engines, along with many
features designed just for 2D. You can craft unique worlds with the TileMap system,
animate your characters with 2D sprite animation or Cutout animation, and use 2D
lighting to dynamically light your scenes. There is also a robust 2D particle system to
create visual effects, with custom shader support. So, get ready to dive into the wonderful
realm of 2D game development with Godot!
```
Applied most of the feedback here, while trying to keep a little bit of the original tone.

Optionally each of these features could be a link to the appropriate page, but I don't think that's necessary in an intro paragraph.

> development with Godot!

Author: Another shot.

.. figure:: img/2d_platformer_demo.webp
   
   2D Platformer Demo available on the Asset Library.

This page will show you the 2D workspace and how you can get to know it.

.. tip:: If you would like to get an introduction to 3D, see :ref:`doc_introduction_to_3d`.

> 2D workspace

Reviewer: Note that it's [not completely clear](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/issues/5731) whether the preferred term is:
- "2D Workspace", as used here and in some other places in the docs
- "2D main screen", or "2D Editor", as used in the editor itself.

![Godot_v4 4-dev4_win64_rezKl8J8lA](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05837e0f-636a-4096-bc51-dcd36218753f)

I'd be very happy using the terms "Workspaces" and "2D Workspace", but be aware we are setting some precedent here.

Author: Is this then fine? 2D Workspace?

Reviewer: Yeah, this is fine as-is, you don't need to make changes.

I'm in favor of calling these workspaces. I just wanted to point out that it's a bit of an open discussion, and let anyone else comment if they cared.

~~~~~~~~~~~~

You will use the 2D workspace to work with 2D scenes, design levels, or create user 
interfaces.

> You can use the workspace selector located in Godot's top edge at the middle, or choose a 2D 
> related node from the scene tree to switch to the 2D editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch to the 2D workspace, you can either select a 2D node from the scene tree, or use the workspace selector located at the top edge of the editor:
```
I think if we pick "2D workspace" as the term, it should be consistently used here? Also mildy reworded for clarity

- **Scale Mode** (:kbd:`R`): Enables scaling and displays scaling gizmos in both 
  axes for the selected node(s). See :ref:`doc_introduction_to_2d_the_viewport` for more details.
- **Show list of selectable nodes at position clicked**: As the description suggests, 
  this provides a list of selectable nodes at the clicked position as a context menu, if 
  there is more than one node in the clicked area.
- **Rotation pivot**: Sets the rotation pivot to rotate node(s) around.
  An added node has its rotation pivot at ``x: 0``, ``y: 0``, by default, with
  exceptions. For example, the default pivot for a :ref:`Sprite2D <class_Sprite2D>` is its 
  center if the ``centered`` property is set to ``true``. If you would like to change the 
  rotation pivot of a node, click this button and choose a new location by left clicking. 
  The node rotates considering this point. If you have multiple nodes selected, this icon 
  will add a temporary pivot to be used commonly by all selected nodes. Pressing :kbd:`Shift` 
  and clicking this button will create the pivot at the center of selected nodes. If any of 
  the snap options are enabled, the pivot will also snap to them it when dragged.

> - **Pan Mode**: Allows you to navigate in the viewport without accidentally selecting any nodes.
>   You can also use :kbd:`G` (or :kbd:`Space`) and drag with the left mouse button to do the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Pan Mode** (:kbd:`G`): Allows you to navigate in the viewport without accidentally selecting any nodes.
  In other modes, you can also hold :kbd:`Space` and drag with the left mouse button to do the same.
```

- **Gizmos**: Toggles the visibility of `Position` (shown with cross icon), `Lock` 
  (shown with padlock), `Groups` (shown with two squares), and `Transformation` (shown with 
  green and red lines) indicators.
- **Center Selection**: The same as the **Center View** button inside the viewport. Centers the selected 
  node(s) in the view. :kbd:`F` is the default shortcut.
- **Frame to Selection**: Similar to `Center Selection`, but also changes the zoom factor to fit the 
  contents in the screen. :kbd:`Shift + F` is the default shortcut.
- **Clear Guides**: Deletes all guides from the screen. You will need to recreate them if 
  you plan to use them later. 
- **Preview Canvas Scale**: Toggles the preview for scaling of canvas in the editor when the zoom 
  factor or view of the viewport changes. Useful to see how the controls will look like after scaling 
  and moving, without running the game.
- **Preview Theme**: Allows to choose from the available themes to change the look of control items 
  in the editor, without requiring to run the game.

Node2D and Control node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> :ref:`Node2D <class_Node2D>` is the base node for 2D. :ref:`Control <class_Control>` is the base node 
> for everything GUI. For 3D, Godot uses the :ref:`Node3D <class_Node3D>` node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`CanvasItem` is the base node for 2D. :ref:`Node2D <class_Node2D>` is the base node
for 2D game objects, and :ref:`Control <class_Control>` is the base node 
for everything GUI. For 3D, Godot uses the :ref:`Node3D <class_Node3D>` node.
```
As-is, this seems misleading. `CanvasItem` is the base 2D node, from the [CanvasItem docs:](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_canvasitem.html#description)
> Abstract base class for everything in 2D space. Canvas items are laid out in a tree; children inherit and extend their parent's transform. CanvasItem is extended by [Control](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_control.html#class-control) for GUI-related nodes, and by [Node2D](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_node2d.html#class-node2d) for 2D game objects.

But I'm not sure if my suggestion is the best way to clarify, I'm not a 2D expert.

If :kbd:`Alt + Shift` is held during dropping, the node type can be selected if 
applicable.

Main toolbar
------------

Some buttons in the main toolbar are the same as those in the 3D workspace. A brief explanation
is given with the shortcut if the mouse cursor is hovered over a button for one second. 
Some buttons may have additional functionality if another keypress is performed. 
A recap of main functionality of each button with its default shortcut is provided below 
from left to right:

.. image:: img/2d_toolbar.webp

- **Select Mode** (:kbd:`Q`): Allows selection of nodes in the viewport. Left clicking on a node 
  in the viewport selects one.
  Left clicking and dragging a rectangle selects all nodes within the rectangle's boundaries,
  once released.
  Holding :kbd:`Shift` while selecting adds more nodes to the selection.
  Clicking on a selected node while holding :kbd:`Shift` deselects the node.
  In this mode, you can drag the selected node(s) to move, press :kbd:`Ctrl` to switch to the 
  rotation mode temporarily, or use the red circles to scale it. If multiple nodes are 
  selected, only movement and rotation are possible. In this mode, rotation and scaling 

>   will not use the snapping options if snapping enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  will not use the snapping options if snapping is enabled.
```

  - Primarly Line Every: The number of grids in-between to draw infinite lines as indication of 
    main lines.
  - Rotation Offset: Sets the offset to shift rotational snapping.
  - Rotation Step: Defines the snapping degree. E.g., 15 means the node will rotate and snap 
    at each 15 degrees if rotation snap is enabled and the rotate mode is used.
  - Scale Step: Determines the scaling increment factor. For example, if it is 0.1, it will 
    change the scaling at 0.1 steps if scaling snap is enabled and the scaling mode is used.

- **Lock** (:kbd:`Ctrl + L`) the selected nodes, preventing selection and movement in the 
  viewport. Clicking the button again (or using :kbd:`Ctrl + Shift + L`) unlocks the selected 
  nodes. Locked nodes can only be selected in the scene tree.
  They can easily be identified with a padlock next to their node names in the scene tree. 
  Clicking on this padlock also unlocks the nodes.
- **Group selected nodes** (:kbd:`Ctrl + G`). This allows selection of the root node if any 
  of the children are selected. Using :kbd:`Ctrl + G` ungroups them. Additionally, clicking 
  the ungroup button in the scene tree performs the same action.

> - **Skeleton Settings**: Provides options to work with Skeleton2D and Bone2D.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Skeleton Options**: Provides options to work with Skeleton2D and Bone2D.
```
Is the actual tooltip of this

2D Viewport
-----------

The viewport will be the area you spend the most time if you plan to design levels or user 
interfaces visually:

.. image:: img/2d_editor_viewport_with_viewmenu.webp

Middle-clicking and dragging the mouse will pan the view. 
The scrollbars on the right or bottom of the viewport also move the view.
Alternatively, :kbd:`G` or :kbd:`Space` keys can be used.
If you enable `Editor Settings > Editors > Panning > Simple Panning`, you can activate
directly panning with :kbd:`Space` key only, without requiring dragging.

The viewport has buttons on the top-left.
**Center View** centers the selected node(s) in the screen. Useful if you have a large scene 
with many nodes, and want to see the node selected in the scene tree.
Next to it, are the zoom controls. **-** zooms out, **+** zooms in, and clicking on the number 
with percentage defaults to 100%.
Alternatively, you can use middle-mouse scrolling to zoom in (scroll up) and out (scroll down).

The black bars at the viewport's left and top are the **rulers**. You can use them to 
orient yourself in the viewport.
By default, the rulers will display the pixel coordinates of the viewport, numbered at 

> each 100 pixels. Changing zoom factor will also increase or decrease the scaling of these 

Author: Proposal: By default, the rulers will display the pixel coordinates of the viewport, numbered at 
100 pixel steps. Changing the zoom factor will change the shown values.

numbers.
Enabling `Grid Snap` or changing the snapping options will update the ruler's scaling and 
the shown values.

You can also create multiple custom guides to help you make measurements or align 
nodes with them:

.. image:: img/2d_editor_guidelines.webp

If you have at least one node in the scene, clicking on the black area of the horizontal or 
vertical ruler and dragging the mouse toward the viewport will create a purple guide, also showing 
its global position in the other axis. Releasing the mouse will leave it in that position. If you use 
the gray square located at the intersection of both the horizontal and vertical rulers, you will 
create a horizontal and a vertical line at the same time. Horizontal guides can be repositioned 
by dragging them inside the vertical ruler. Once you hover your mouse over a line inside the 
vertical ruler, your cursor will change. Similarly, vertical guides can be repositioned by 
dragging inside the horizontal ruler. To remove a guide, move it all the way back to the 

> respective ruler.

Author: Proposal: If you have at least one node in the scene, you can create guides by dragging from the horizontal 
or vertical ruler towards the viewport. A purple guide will appear, showing its position, and will 
remain there when you release the mouse. You can create both horizontal and vertical guides 
simultaneously by dragging from the gray square at the rulers' intersection. Guides can be 
repositioned by dragging them back to their respective rulers, and they can be removed by 
dragging them all the way back to the ruler.

You can also enable snapping to the created guides using `Smart Snap` menu.

.. note:: If you cannot create a line, or do not see previously created guide, make sure that 
they are visible by checking `View` menu of the viewport. :kbd:`Y` toggles their visibility, 
by default. Also, make sure you have at least one node in the scene.

Depending on the tool chosen in the toolbar, left-clicking will have a primary action in the 
viewport.
For example, the `Select Mode` will select the left-clicked node in the viewport.
Sometimes, left-clicking can be combined with a modifier (e.g., :kbd:`Ctrl`, or :kbd:`Shift`) to 
perform secondary actions.
For example, keeping :kbd:`Shift` pressed while dragging a node in the Select or Move mode will 
try to snap the node in a single axis while moving.

Right clicking on the viewport provides two options to create a node or instantiate scene 
in the chosen position.
If at least one node is selected, right clicking also provides an option to move the selected 
node(s) to this position.

Viewport has a **View** menu which provides several options to change the look of the viewport:

> - **Grids**: Allows you to show grids all the time, only when using snapping, or not at all. You 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Grid**: Allows you to show grids all the time, only when using snapping, or not at all. You 
```

  can also toggle them with the provided option.
- **Show Helpers**: Toggles the temporary display of an outline of the node, with the previous 
  transform properties (position, scaling, or rotation) if a transform operation has been 

>   initiated. For the `Control` nodes, it also shows the sizing parameters. Useful to see the deltas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  initiated. For `Control` nodes, it also shows the sizing parameters. Useful to see the deltas.
```

  :ref:`doc_introduction_to_2d_the_viewport` more on rulers.
- **Show Guides**: Toggles the visibility of created guide lines. See 
  :ref:`doc_introduction_to_2d_the_viewport` for on how to create them.
- **Show Origin**: Toggles the display of green and red origin lines drawn at ``x: 0, y: 0``.
- **Show Viewport**: Toggles the visibility of indigo-colored rectangle, the game's default 
  viewport. It is also the default window size on desktop platforms, which can be changed by going 
  to `Project Settings > Display > Window > Size` and setting `Viewport Width` and `Viewport Height`.
- **Gizmos**: Toggles the visibility of indicators of `Position` (shown with cross icon), `Lock` 
  (shown with padlock), `Groups` (shown with two squares), and `Transformation` (shown with 
  green and red lines).
- **Center Selection**: The same as **Center View** button inside the viewport. Centers the selected 
  node(s) in the view. :kbd:`F` is the default shortcut.
- **Frame to Selection**: Similar to `Center Selection`, but also changes the zoom factor to fit the 
  contents in the screen. :kbd:`Shift + F` is the default shortcut.

> - **Delete Guide Lines**: Deletes all guide lines from the screen. You will need to recreate them if 
>   you plan to use them later. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Delete Guides**: Deletes all guides from the screen. You will need to recreate them if 
  you plan to use them later. 
```
The headings here should match the actual menu options

> - **Preview Canvas Scaling**: Toggles the preview for scaling of canvas in the editor when the zoom 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Preview Canvas Scale**: Toggles the preview for scaling of canvas in the editor when the zoom 
```

  factor or view of the viewport changes. Useful to see how the controls will look like after scaling 
  and moving, without running the game.

> - **Theme Preview**: Allows to choose from the available themes to change the look of control items 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Preview Theme**: Allows to choose from the available themes to change the look of control items 
```

  in the editor, without requiring to run the game.

Node2D and Control node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:ref:`Node2D <class_Node2D>` is the base node for 2D. :ref:`Control <class_Control>` is the base node 

> for everything GUI. For the 3D, the Godot uses the :ref:`Node3D <class_Node3D>` node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for everything GUI. For 3D, Godot uses the :ref:`Node3D <class_Node3D>` node.
```
